Let's move on to the next question.
Why do we need to talk about warehouse equipment in more detail?
First, the warehouse equipment is related to the investment costs of the company, which, supposedly, decided to rent a room.
On the other hand, depending on the function of the warehouse, the equipment of the warehouse should be different.
You don't need to buy equipment that will increase your costs, storage and maintenance costs,
while being inapplicable to this type of storage.
Therefore, the main principle of the equipment is the principle of proportionality.
What is the proportionality? First of all, the form of ownership.
Is your warehouse rented or is it something else to which you transfer services?
Of course, the warehouse that represents the outsourcing services tries to be equipped with the latest technology.
It is usually a type of warehouse A and B and performs all these above-mentioned functions.
The second point is the function of the warehouse.
If your functional purpose is a warehouse at a shopping mall, then you don't need high-rise storage.
High-rise storage is often not needed for distribution centers.
Several levels of storage are enough, but not necessarily 7-8 levels.
The type of storage. Imagine a very heavy metal structure.
It is unlikely that it will be possible to store it on shelves.
Accordingly, it is assumed that the height of the ceiling is not important here, there will be field storage.
Variants of warehouse processing of goods.
If you have a small-sized product, for example, a book, then the warehouse processing of goods can be automated.
Then it is probably more profitable to transfer such a warehouse to the outsourcing specialized bookstores,
where special cassette storage places can be automatically completed.
Features of the cargo flow.
Where the cargo flow is quite rich, where the cargo flow passes through the warehouse, you must choose various types of equipment for it.
This option of vehicles, for example, a car or a road vehicle, will affect the choice of warehouse equipment.
Now let's look at some types of warehouse equipment in more detail.
The main place of storage, except for field storage, is the storage structure.
And, first of all, the storage structure is divided into two types.
These are hook mounts and bolt mounts of these structures.
What is the difference?
If you have a hook mount, then such a storage can be adjusted faster at different heights of stored goods.
But the bolt mount of the storage already has a fairly rigid structure, which, so to speak, needs more time to be adjusted to some type of product.
Nevertheless, both options are used quite actively.
Hook mounts are mainly used in modern high-rise automated warehouses.
The next type of storage, which is designed on the basis of the previous version of front pallet storage or archive storage, is mezzanine.
It is assumed that mezzanine storages are organized in the upper tiers of storage after the lower tiers are filled with more permanent storage.
Accordingly, such mezzanine storages allow you to use the entire storage area more densely.
In this case, in this photo, a separate unit of goods is stored in mezzanine in the form of small boxes.
There may be, of course, more, but, of course, mezzanine storages can be used primarily as a components area.
And in the components area, some large large pallets must already be decomposed and distributed to units of storage for artificial goods or in some boxes.
Moreover, offices or some sub-units can be organized in mezzanine storages.
The levels of mezzanine storages are connected to each other, as can be seen in this photo, by stairs.
But, in principle, if there are enough of such floors of mezzanine, you can even attach a certain technical elevator.
In principle, mezzanine is often used in distribution centers.
The next option is console storages.
The main purpose of these storages is to store long-term goods, both on pallets and on special packaging cassettes.
It is important that these console storages are flexible enough in rearrangement.
You can set the different height of the shelves and, accordingly, adjust them to a certain length of the goods that will be stored here.
Well, except that usually in console storages there are some technical requirements,
which suggest that the main weight of the cargo should still be located closer to the wall,
or if we have such a cargo stored, so to speak, quite heavy.
As can be seen from this photo, the approach to such console storages is possible from two sides,
so they somewhat resemble front storages, and, accordingly, the processing of goods here at speed will not take, so to speak, a lot of time.
The next system and classification is loading and carrying-out deep storages.
A deep storage can be imagined as a storage place, where, so to speak, you put some supplies for some non-risk purposes.
What is the name of the loading and carrying-out?
Basically, it is related to how the maintenance equipment passes into this storage.
Neither the other deep storage, neither the production nor the loading, can be serviced manually.
Therefore, of course, a high-lifting technique in the form of rack tracks or electric stabilizers is used here,
which just move pallets with cargo and fill this very storage.
What does the filling rack mean?
It means that the last unit of this cargo unit, in this case loaded with the pallet, will be loaded, supposedly, the last one.
In order to pull out the penultimate unit from this rack, you will also have to remove this first unit.
Therefore, the last pallet will be the first one.
Last in, first out.
In this case, it is assumed that there are usually some slots here, through which the pallets can move towards the end of the rack of this structure.
It is assumed that a technique entrance, which would, so to speak, pull out these pallets, is possible from both sides.
Based on this, moving along the rollers or, so to speak, being pushed by some loading rack tracks or stabilizers,
the pallet moves further and further into the depths.
And on the other hand, it can be accepted from the opposite side.
Therefore, the FIFO principle, first in, first out,
Accordingly, the earliest pallet will eventually reach the end of this storage area, and it will be the first to be pulled out for cargo processing.
The disadvantage of deep racks is a fairly high cost, much higher than front racks.
Of course, such deep racks are mainly used for storage units of Groups A and B, in general, specialized in the supply of logistic services.
Well, the most, so to speak, expensive are shelf racks, in the sense that they can be located in some kind of trading complexes.
And their main advantage is that some small parts and cargo, some containers with this artificial product can be stored on the shelves.
And shelf racks are used for the completion of cargo, for processing orders.
And they, at least, allow workers who process orders to take goods from each cell and form an order.
I would also like to draw your attention to the gravity of the shelves, which are essentially a means of low-mechanization.
Since they have roller bars installed on the frames at an angle to the horizon, then, under the influence of gravity, if such bars are tilted a little, goods can move along these shelves.
And the orderer does not have to make great efforts to remove the box, for example, from such a gravity rack.
The advantage of gravity racks is essentially the same as that of deep racks.
First, the FIFU principle. I mean deep-drain racks.
That is, the box that was put first, it can be taken from the other end of this rack.
Of course, these shelves can still be used for additional control over the shelf life.
The orderer usually moves along such shelves minimally.
Here, perhaps, the block principle of cargo storage, which gives a gain in area, high sliding of those cargoes.
And, in principle, due to these additional means of low-mechanization, it is possible to reduce the errors of the order completion and, accordingly, also highlight the unloading and unloading zones of the goods.
Gravity racks are mainly used in combination with gravity conveyors.
And in the completion zones, as shown on the slide, for goods of groups A and B, that is, for goods that are most in demand,
they are most often moved for the completion of orders.
Together with such gravity conveyors, they represent the design of the order completion zone.
I would also like to draw your attention to the docking equipment of the warehouse.
Imagine a dock, which is actually the name of the warehouse entrance.
And if, for example, the entrance to the building is supposed to have stairs, then in order for the cargo vehicles to drive well enough to this entrance to the warehouse,
a ramp is usually organized there, or an inclined platform, a log lift, on which a vehicle drives in the form of a truck.
It is very important to equip the place of loading, because modern warehouses, as I said, often maintain a special temperature regime.
And just the ramp, on which the truck, which has arrived, stands on this inclined platform, can be subject to all winds and rains in different weather conditions.
Based on this, it is impossible to disassemble this cargo right here.
The equipment that we have is designed to enter the warehouse, special automatic modern doors, called a dock shelter.
They come in different types, inflatable, curtain, and pillow, as shown in our photo.
The inflatable ones are more hermetic and cover this transport equipment from all sides, quite tightly.
They can be used just for refrigerators of warehouses with a special temperature regime.
The curtain ones are more versatile. It is possible that the transport equipment here is of different volumes, and the curtains are more flexible.
And the pillow versions of such doors can be very popular.
But, as you can see, they are not suitable for pallets, for moving pallets, and, accordingly, are limited in use.
There is also a variant of special storage gates, these are high-speed gates.
They are, of course, more applicable inside the premises, maintain a temperature regime, and allow you to design a warehouse with different storage areas.
That is, in one warehouse you can have a storage area with a low temperature regime, or with some high temperature regime, a common storage area, and so on.
I have already said that the ramp is a kind of lift that helps the transport equipment to enter the warehouse.
But as soon as the car has entered the warehouse, it is assumed that the goods must be unloaded from this car.
And, of course, you can unload manually, so to speak, by shifting these boxes on the carrier.
But on the other hand, there is such a device as a dock leveler.
That is, this is a leveling platform that allows you to align the distance between the vehicle and the means on which the overload of pallets, boxes, or some other types of products is carried out.
There are quite a lot of them.
Here is a mini-dock leveler, it is cheaper to use, hydraulically, of course, more expensive, since it involves such a more complex design.
Another variant of storage equipment, low-mechanization, is lifting tables.
I have already said that one of the principles of adequate work in the warehouse is the ergonomic working place.
And here, in this case, the equipment manager does not have to bend over to the boxes when he unboxes this pallet, but it is possible to make a normal slope for loading.
There are different options of these lifting tables, the level of lifting is also diverse.
The most popular equipment for more or less high-rise warehouses is a warehouse stacker.
It is assumed that in different variants, manual, electric, or even self-propelled, it lifts loads to different heights.
As you can see, this is a device with a fork, a fork device.
Accordingly, it is assumed that this stacker moves pallets or pallets in the warehouse.
And again, a kind of low-mechanization means allows you to move not one pallet at once, but several at once.
For example, up to 3.5 tons or more than 3 tons, depending on the capacity.
It is worth mentioning the equipment for packaging.
We have already discussed such an example of an additional service, additional cost, as cross-docking.
I said that an order comes to the warehouse, packed in stretch film.
So, just the pallet packers, either for pallets, which are presented to us in the photo, or smaller stripping machines for boxes, or some manual machines.
They are supposed to pack the order after the order packer has completed the order, and send it to the end consumer.
This is how such equipment helps.
Another device, of course, is mainly used in large warehouses, is the order packers or concessionaires.
What is the difference between it and the previous mechanisms that lifted pallets or lowered pallets from some height?
It is assumed that there is a certain platform, and the order packer, as shown in this picture,
together with this platform rises to the desired level, where he collects the goods he needs.
Moreover, there is some place on this order packer, where you can lay out various types of equipment that is being packaged.
The intermediate position between the pallet packer and the order packer is a ridge track.
This is a pallet packer with a moving carriage-mast.
As you can see, he has a fairly high speed of movement along the warehouse, and a high speed of lifting up to 6 meters per second, and, accordingly, a fairly decent lifting capacity.
It can also be used quite actively.
In principle, we, unfortunately, do not have more time to dwell on other types of warehouse mechanization in detail.
But I would like to talk about the object that I often talk about, about the warehouse of the pallet.
The English name is Pallet, the Russian version is Paleta.
This is the horizontal loading platform on which the order type is laid.
The pallet has a corresponding stereotype.
Euro pallets, as indicated, are 800x1200x150 mm.
Another standard version is 1000x1200x150.
In principle, it is precisely under such a standard of the pallet that it is necessary to select the appropriate equipment.
Under such a standard of the pallet, it is necessary to install, so to speak, a range of storage structures and everything else.
Please note that there is also a phytosanitary standard ASPM-15.
This is an international quality standard that, when transported internationally, exposes special requirements for pallets.
It is assumed that they must be subjected to either chemical or thermal treatment when designed.
But mostly, of course, pallet manufacturers are subjected to thermal treatment.
Why? Because what is the pallet made of? It is a tree.
Accordingly, there may be some insects and bugs.
And when crossing the border, unfortunately, there were already such cases when these pallets were, so to speak,
in terms of phytosanitary standards, without compliance.
Accordingly, measures have now been developed by all border services that carry out phytosanitary control
in order to control the movement of such an international product in pallets or on pallets.
Our next topic is the design and planning of warehouses.
We have already discussed some of the main components related to the equipment of warehouses.
I hope you understand that the equipment of a warehouse depends on the type of storage,
the flow of goods, the flow of goods through the warehouse.
Now let's take a closer look at the design factors of a warehouse.
In principle, the design of each warehouse is individual.
And each company will decide for itself what qualities this warehouse should have,
what is its functional purpose.
Nevertheless, all these multifactorial positions can be combined,
and we will consider some of the design factors of the warehouse.
First of all, is it a corporate or a general warehouse?
We found out that corporate warehouses are usually a specific warehouse,
where some one-type product is usually stored,
some conditions of storage are weak,
and, accordingly, it requires tightness, and so on.
It is impossible to store various types of products together.
Therefore, such a corporate warehouse will have special requirements
for floors, various types of storage racks, doors, and other temperature modes.
The second question that should be asked to the designers is
what type of goods and what volume of workflow.
Why? Because, I repeat, there may be some chemical incompatibilities of goods,
and this should be taken into account.
The volume of workflow greatly affects the design area,
what should be the zones of long-term storage, short-term storage,
or some intermediate storage zones,
if your workflow is related, for example, to cross-docking.
The speed of the implementation of this product,
the frequency of selection of goods, and so on,
will certainly require not only the allocation of special zones in the warehouse,
but also the appropriate equipment and hiring of appropriate workers.
What type of warehouse?
Is it a storage warehouse or a distribution center?
I have already said that this will affect the level of warehouse mechanization.
The picture shows the processing station of the order,
which allows the scanner, using various computer software,
to form an order with sufficient accuracy.
Of course, if your warehouse performs both functions,
that is, it is a storage warehouse and a distribution center,
then you need to think about how to maximize the use of the warehouse area
and organize the mezzanine zones for the order.
Moreover, modern mezzanines allow the movement of some equipment at certain levels.
So, as you can see, the planners face a dilemma.
Three tasks are needed – space, mechanization, personnel.
All these objects of planning, space, mechanization, and personnel,
will result in some costs.
If we want to maximize the use of the warehouse area
and assume a special storage zone,
then, most likely, we will need to use the appropriate mechanisms.
If the personnel is hired to this warehouse to save time and processing,
and you will have a manual processing of the order,
then this can affect the costs of the personnel's labor,
and may even have a negative impact on the quality of the order.
What other additional factors of planning the warehouse I would like to note?
First, the permanent or variable place of the order.
If you have automated warehouses,
then each type of product requires a permanent storage place,
because it is included in the program.
These transport devices that take the goods from the corresponding shelves
work with the permanent storage places.
But if you have a permanent storage place,
and this type of product is still missing,
or if you have a permanent storage place,
for example, organized by type of brands,
then the shelves are being placed, and the useful area is being placed.
But on the other hand, automation, as seen from the previous diagram,
is a function that we perform,
and the processing times of orders are being performed quite normally.
Horizontal or vertical placement.
As soon as the height of the warehouse increases,
the requirements for special equipment are being issued,
which will process the most complex pallets of high-rise storage.
On the other hand,
given that the squares, especially in the cities, are quite expensive,
the increase in the warehouse floor area
reduces the costs of long-term investment,
namely, the construction of the warehouse.
Based on this, new warehouse complexes are usually considered
as the A-class complexes.
And here, in this diagram, in these photos,
the horizontal and vertical placement of the warehouses is presented.
A one-story warehouse is supposed to have floor storage,
and, of course, it probably corresponds to this,
and high-rise storage, as shown in this diagram,
is already necessarily supposed to have some kind of transport equipment,
in particular, here is a lift.
In general, the planners of the warehouse have a dilemma
about what to choose, the area or the time.
If the warehouse is oriented to the processing of orders,
then, of course, the choice will be preferable in favor of saving time.
If the warehouse is designed for longer storage,
then, probably, the preference will be given to the area.
Although, often, these components cannot be satisfied at the same time.
For example, saving time.
In order to save time, we should have special areas for the completion of orders
and replenishment of the stock of goods for this intermediate completion.
Thus, there will already be three areas in the warehouse.
The area of long storage, the area of replenishment of the stock,
and also the area of completion.
The territory of the warehouse, in this case, is not saved,
but time is saved,
because the component will be able to perform its functions faster.
The economy of space.
Here is the main goal of storage.
Then we highlight these areas from our project.
And on one site, just according to the schedule,
different types of work are carried out at different times.
Again, this is not possible if the flow is rich enough.
If the flow of cargo that is to be processed is small,
then, of course, it is possible to break the schedule operations
and carry them out on the same territory.
For example, we can have active and reserve stocks for the economy of time.
What does this mean?
Again, this is all a discussion about the completion area.
Why? Because the component goes to the active stock area at once,
and the cargo is processed there.
The economy of space implies the presence of some minimum reserve stocks.
But if the reserve stock is minimal,
then there should be some areas under the bunkers in the processing area of the order,
where the necessary products will be stored for the order.
That is, every time we have to calculate this project individually,
depending on the flow of work and the amount of cargo that is processed.
The optimal option is, of course, automatic order compiling lines,
which are presented by the fast track conveyor system,
which in this case helps to form orders.
The components are located along this conveyor,
and these boxes are delivered to them for cargo processing.
Here is another question.
Two loading platforms or one?
This is again a question of saving space and time.
The linear option is our top scheme.
It is assumed that unloading and loading take place from different platforms.
Accordingly, the machines do not interfere with each other,
and the people who process these orders do not interfere.
But, of course, space is not saved here.
Only time.
U-shaped. This option saves us space.
Unloading and loading take place from one gate.
In this case, the class of this warehouse is immediately reduced.
It is somewhere from class C.
But unloading and loading take place according to schedule.
Of course, if your flow of goods is not so large,
then you can fit into the schedule and thus provide this warehouse.
You can also highlight such private factors as intensive or highly mechanized work.
Of course, highly mechanized work will increase the accuracy of processing,
but it will also increase the costs.
Accordingly, the price of labor and costs for automation or mechanization must be weighed every time.
If low-paid employees work in your warehouse,
you will probably choose manual labor.
If the flow of work is so large and requires such accuracy that you have a lot of mistakes,
then you will probably prefer a mechanized type of warehouse.
Space for passages or racks.
In the application for the lecture, I suggest you consider a case
where designers try to reduce the space for passages,
increasing the length of the racks, and increasing the useful storage area.
Indeed, the useful storage area will be increased.
But what will be difficult here?
The processing time will be increased.
The next factor of planning is the system of compiling of warehouses.
We also talked a little about this.
This is a scheme of a person to a product or a product to a person.
The first option, when the compiler moves along the racks,
assumes the presence of various transport and loading means,
in particular, automated commissioners.
But the scheme of goods to a person assumes that the compiler is already stationary,
and the goods are delivered to it.
In this case, it is quite likely that additional equipment,
such as various types of conveyors, will be needed.
What other additional factors could be considered?
Corporate warehouse or a place in the general use warehouse?
Taxes are added here,
the peculiarities of contractual relations with the owners of the warehouse when renting the territory,
the questions about hiring workers, and so on.
Are the services of the cross-docking applied?
We talked about this in detail.
If it is a one-stage cross-docking,
the trucks will be like a reserve zone,
and if it is a two-stage cross-docking, then a reserve storage zone is needed.
A paperless or a documented warehouse?
A paperless warehouse gives a more accurate account of the flow of goods.
A fast location of one or another product saves time.
But a paperless warehouse certainly requires costs for various mechanization tools,
such as a counting device,
and variants of radio markers, for example, which are marked on some cargo.
If we consider the principal schemes of the warehouse,
based on everything that we have discussed,
we have already found at least three zones.
The zone of receiving goods, the zone of storage, and the zone of unloading.
The ideal option is that the zone of receiving and unloading
is located at different ends of the cargo flow,
and it is ideal that the goods move linearly.
This type of warehouse corresponds to the long-term storage warehouse.
If this scheme of the warehouse is closer to the distribution center,
then additional zones appear.
In addition to the zone of receiving, the zone of unloading,
the zone of complementation and the zone of consolidation appears.
In the zone of complementation, there is an intermediate storage of the individual goods,
and in the storage zone there can be pallets and boxes.
And in the zone of consolidation, there is a repackaging of the cargo and then unloading.
All these zones require special equipment and special variants of racks.
What else can affect the plans for placing products and racks in the warehouse?
First, you can assess the flow of goods by the logistic marketing method ABC or XYZ.
What does this mean?
Group A goods are goods that are transported most often by warehouse and are required by the consumer.
Group B goods are goods that are transported less often, but C is quite rare.
Accordingly, you place this product in the warehouse,
Group C goods will be placed in a far box, and Group A goods will be placed at hand.
Next, there may be a requirement from the consumer stores,
which require to place goods in the orderly order in the distribution center,
in which they are placed on the shelves of the store.
Of course, this is a kind of additional value service.
But this service reduces the processing time of goods and, accordingly, the costs.
Even the documents from such a store will be in accordance with the order of these shelves in the store and on the warehouse shelf.
There may be an option to optimize the batch of goods,
multiple, for example, single goods, goods in a box or a pallet.
Accordingly, you need to choose the equipment that will serve different types of goods.
For example, you have one box of ketchup, a whole pallet of paper towels,
and several boxes of other products.
All this together will need to be somehow completed and have different storage areas for them.
In this case, it will be a storage area for pallets, one for the storeroom,
and, accordingly, various forked conveyors that will transport all this.
It will be a storage area in boxes,
since, as I said, some products are forbidden to us in terms of the volume of the box.
Or maybe even a single product.
In this case, this store may not need so many knives,
and it will take this amount of equipment in each order.
Next, the storage area for mixed storage.
This is also an option when logistics providers offer you various storage options,
such as a refrigerator and a dry storage area.
Or, as I gave you an example, a bakery store,
where at the same time there is a deep freezer and a storage area.
This will certainly affect the layout of the warehouse.
Thus, there are quite a lot of factors, and they all need to be taken into account.
To summarize our discussion, we could highlight several stages of decision-making when designing a warehouse.
The first stage is, of course, marketing.
You should assess the approximate demand for materials and the flow of work for the next five years.
This is a long-term plan, but if you decide to spend money on the organization of storage areas soon,
then you need to assess the demand for materials and the flow of work for the next five years.
Then, the daily flow of materials through the warehouse is designed.
The third stage is to compare the available equipment for cargo processing
and choose the equipment that suits your type of warehouse, such as racks and so on.
The fourth stage is to determine the type of product for each type of warehouse.
Because you work for a specific type of customer, not just a warehouse for unknown purposes.
The place for storing each unit of product is determined,
by type, size, dimensions, and so on.
Then the layout of the warehouses is determined.
We must analyze the physical characteristics and take into account the demand in the ABC method,
take into account some physical properties in terms of temperature storage,
values, for example, of the storage safety option,
requirements for separate storage of products,
and for each product type, determine the corresponding storage area.
The seventh stage is to summarize all this material,
and we form a general storage scheme for cargo processing based on modeling.
When this model is created, it is necessary to clarify the details.
Various groups of experts and employees are involved,
and the final project and final development plan are chosen.
In conclusion, I would like to say about the general principles of functionalization of warehouse planning.
These principles of functionalization are available for the organization of any warehouse.
The first principle is to ensure a continuous material flow.
It is assumed that there should be no lags in equipment,
no lags in employees, and no lags in vehicles that serve this warehouse.
The next point is to simplify the number of movements,
and, accordingly, some types of movements should be combined,
and some types of movements in the warehouse should be reduced.
It is possible to introduce high-rise storage or save space due to mezzanine storage.
There is a recommendation to place offices outside the main working area of the warehouse or at least in the mezzanine,
since such offices do not save space in the warehouse and make it difficult to work.
It is necessary to take into account the space under the roof,
and if possible, it is in this area, in the space under the roof,
that it is possible to organize the movement of materials and even their processing.
The optimal places for passages should be developed.
They should be narrow enough to save space,
but wide enough so that the equipment you have chosen can pass through them
and process the cargo at a sufficient speed.
And the last principle is to develop such a warehouse layout,
so that there is a unidirectional linear movement of goods and cargo,
so that neither the suppliers of orders nor those who transport these cargo batches
between the various areas of the warehouse do not return.
Conclusion
In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to two ways of developing the warehouse system.
There is a special management direction called the management of the company's development.
And, as you know, there are two ways.
The first is a revolutionary or an e-strategy,
which involves engineering, automation.
The revolutionary methodology of reforming and changing the warehouse requires large capital investments,
modernization of all processes, organization of all this.
And the second option is an evolutionary or an e-strategy.
This option is the most interesting for us in terms of organizational management,
because it assumes that you have already analyzed the existing resources
and are trying to organize them correctly and rationally,
perhaps by adding small means of small mechanization, computerization of processes,
since this is an integral requirement of modern work of any organization,
not only of warehouse systems and warehouses.
So, let's see how the first, very short, way of automation,
as well as the e-strategy or the development of organizational factors of such warehouse systems.
First of all, I would like to draw your attention to the automatic warehouses of vertical and horizontal type.
What is it?
In this case, it is assumed that within the framework of reengineering of the warehouse,
you have generally abandoned low-level warehouses, so to speak,
or with manual processing, completely revolutionary reengineering was introduced,
you have abandoned capital assets, sold them, and bought new equipment,
created new automatic warehouses of vertical and horizontal type.
As you can see, all the advantages are associated with various options of automation.
Automation of the loading and extraction operation, the absence of errors,
since you have computerized information processing,
the control of the life expectancy due to the automated system.
Accordingly, you do not need to carry out inventorying,
it is carried out in automatic mode, the minimum number of workers,
the exclusion of the so-called human factor, the factor of laziness or other problems with labor.
And, of course, a high degree of control and the flexibility of warehouse management is carried out in such a warehouse.
But I will return to one more idea.
Such a warehouse is quite expensive, because all the equipment here is automated.
Examples of an automatic warehouse.
As we can see in the picture, where is the option of pallet storage,
and this is a high-level warehouse, and it is operated by a vertical stabilizer,
and this is an automatic stabilizer, it automatically selects the necessary pallets.
In another photo, an automated system with a high-altitude stabilizer is presented,
and here is a small storage, medium-sized goods,
such cells where you can select this product in automatic mode.
You can read more about various options for the automation of the warehouse in the lesson application,
but I would like to draw your attention to how this automatic warehouse is built.
Look, here the rack design is not inserted into empty spaces,
it is immediately a carrying skeleton of such a warehouse.
That is, it is immediately built as a high-altitude storage warehouse.
And then these rack designs are faced right on the foundation,
and these warehouses can reach 40 meters,
and various options of pallet processing and artificial processing are possible in such warehouses.
But for small, let's say, in terms of the volume of types of goods,
imagine pencils, pens, notebooks, screws, screws, and so on,
there can be automatic modular warehouses.
Such a module in the form of such a cabinet, box, is installed inside the room of a normal warehouse,
and inside there is a cassette storage, and again, complete automation,
you can set the program for the formation and selection of goods.
This process automatically helps to implement such a modular warehouse.
Now let's consider the improvement of the warehouse work based on organizational solutions.
You have already understood that organizational solutions for each type of activity should be specific,
but we can highlight some general questions of the organization here.
First of all, based on the forecast, it is necessary to develop a strategy for organizational work of the warehouse.
That is, what is it for, what are the goals of its work.
Then it is desirable to introduce such a strategy for constant improvement of work in the organizational plan.
And for this you need to constantly collect feedback from employees,
if you want to organize quality cups,
and within the framework of such a practice of constant meetings,
meetings in which the issues of the quality of processing of products were raised,
to implement this strategy for constant improvement of work.
The next component of the organizational work of the warehouse is the improvement of staff management.
Of course, there are issues of staff health, if you want, staff age,
the payment system, how it should be, and the convenience of workplaces, ergonomics.
Accordingly, the more ergonomically convenient the workplace, the less load the staff experiences,
and, accordingly, the higher its productivity.
As an example, let's say, of the wrong organization of the work of the workplace.
Unfortunately, you can bring the work of such a conveyor shop when assembling at our Russian car factories,
when the assembler had to constantly, for example, to install the windshield,
climb a step 40 cm high.
Accordingly, he was very tired, made mistakes, did not have time for the conveyor.
The same negative principle can be presented in the warehouse,
when, for example, the order-maker has to climb a step or a small step to reach the top shelf,
which is also needed for the order.
Of course, this will reduce the option of processing the flow of goods in this warehouse.
Current operational control is required.
Such formalized checks are formalized in the sense that they must be accurately specified,
the criteria according to which the work is considered to be of high quality or low quality,
that is, the terms, the number of errors.
The more clearly specified in the framework of this operational control the options of error in the work,
the better the work will be organized.
It is also necessary to find out the possibility of the use of cross-docking,
since such a variant of the warehouse work saves work time on the warehouse costs,
on the disbursement, repackaging of goods,
and at the same time gives the opportunity to perform such a service and receive a certain share of profits.
Next, it is necessary to control the placement of goods at the request.
Of course, the groups A and B should be closer to the order-forming zone,
and the other groups should be somewhere further.
Next, you should get rid of unnecessary and unusable property for work,
because it does not contribute to the increase in productivity of the work,
but only clogs the warehouse and does not give the opportunity to organize either a storage area on the same territory,
or to spend money on more progressive equipment.
It is necessary to concentrate resources on the work that brings the most profit.
In this case, you should define the competence zone of your warehouse,
and it is on these types of activities that human and technical resources should be concentrated.
It is necessary to introduce the principle of integration.
Of course, this is not possible everywhere.
Not every warehouse can be built into a rigid technological chain and receive a significant profit from it.
But, let's say, you can agree with the supplier within the framework of the principle of integration,
at least in the sense that the vehicles that bring you some product,
the trucks loaded inside the vehicle can correspond to the order of shelves,
storage places in your warehouse, which makes it easier to disassemble the cargo.
The last principle to pay attention to is the rational use of existing information technology.
Of course, in a small warehouse, you can work with a modern program and DOS,
manually, on paper, make some changes.
But modern information technology presented on the Russian market is quite rich,
and you can use less expensive, less expensive,
if you have a large flow of goods and options of services.
But any information technology significantly increases the productivity of the warehouse.
The truth is that it is necessary to agree here.
Just the equipment and the information provided separately do not give results
if you do not work with the personnel and do not fulfill all the previous points that I have already mentioned.
If we consider the principle of moving cargo and storage,
it can also be rationalized.
First, we need to speed up the process of transporting goods,
thereby increasing the cargo turnover.
For example, the maximum number of pallets should be transported.
What is this often associated with?
For example, a worker carrying goods on his truck
can not receive a ton of cargo, but a number of trips.
As a result, each pallet is transported separately,
earning checkboxes for the salary,
but there is no optimal cargo turnover.
Therefore, this very loading technique must be used in the appropriate areas.
It is unlikely that where you can get around with a cart,
you need to use an electric loader that requires large costs to provide it.
Now, as for the selection of goods and the selection of orders.
Here, again, the first thing to do is to use different types of racks.
I remind you that these can be various racks using, for example,
the force of gravity and, accordingly, facilitating variants of unloading.
Next, there must be a dynamic cargo selection channel.
After all, a warehouse well-provided by the flow of work should have a packaging area.
And it is imperative to have a scheme of the location of goods in the warehouse,
which corresponds to the ABC principle.
It is necessary to select the variants of the selection technique,
to process all orders at the same time on one type of goods.
I mean, again, an example with New Year's gifts.
It is not necessary to go for each candy of a different type for one gift at different times.
It is enough to take this, so to speak, variant of candy or, for example, cookies,
and put them in each gift at the same time.
At the same time, several orders are formed at once.
You save time and movement.
Accordingly, it is more correct to organize the selection of orders in batches.
And, of course, goods that are in low demand,
and, accordingly, the flow of these goods is small,
there is absolutely no need to move all over the territory of the warehouse.
It is more profitable to organize the selection of these goods directly at the storage sites.
The last question concerns the rationalization of the reception, packaging and unloading.
First, the first proposal here is to use inexpensive conveyors without electric drives,
on which the cargo is moved due to the weight.
The second point, which is now necessary to use in all warehouses,
is to use barcodes.
And, accordingly, the allocation of special storage places,
in which goods are stored, also equipped with barcodes,
and you can read the type of product that is there at the expense of the scanners.
Draw up a schedule for the delivery of goods from the dock of the receiver.
If you have a system of U-shaped docking options.
Use the most productive cargo indexing systems,
namely, barcodes,
a device, for example, for weight checking,
for the identity of the assortment,
which helps to accurately calculate the number of individual goods in the package.
And reduce the number of goods that are selected to a maximum.
In particular, if you select goods in some boxes,
then this option can be used as a final packaging.
To summarize the course presented,
I would like to draw your attention to the planning and organization of the warehouse individually.
Each project requires careful elaboration.
Nevertheless, the solution to the problems is quite possible
due to the principle of proportionality,
the selection of adequate racks,
equipment, and personnel for your warehouse.
And the solution to the problem of constant improvement of work within the framework of operational management.
Then, in principle, even a less equipped warehouse will be in a more working condition.
Let me finish my story.
Thank you for your attention.